# Scenic City Summit 2017

 * June 28, 2017
 * Chattanooga Convention Center

## Opening Keynote: The Reusable Javascript Revolution

Cory House

  * Sturgeons Law -> 90% of everything is crap
  * Three Revolutions
    1. NPM Packages
    2. Starter Kits 
    3. Components
  * Starter Kits
    * Too Many Decisions
    * Vanilla.js is malpractice
    * Manual setup of a new project is too much work.
    * A starter kit is an automated checklist.
    * Take an existing starter kit and make it your own.
    * react-slingshot 
  * Reusable Components
    * The modern dev shop is becoming an assembler of components.
    * Web Components
      * Not widely supported
      * Need polyfills currently
    * What to look for with a framework
      * Stability
      * Broad Adoption
      * Low Boilerplate
      * Lightweight
    * > Strong Opinions Weakly Held"
    * Component design is HARD.
    * Component coding is easy.
    
 > The future is here, its just not evenly distributed.
 
## Session 1: A Maze of Twisty Little Passages

Emily Estes

  * Inform 7 -> Language for writing text adventure games.
  
## Session 2: Tame the frontend with Elm

Jeremy Fairbank (@elpapapollo)

  * No runtime exceptions in practice
  * No undefined
  * Fast
  * One Framework
    * Model-View-Update Pattern
  * Functional
    * Creating a function
      ```elm
      greet name = "Hello, " ++ name
      ```
    * Calling a function
      ```elm
      greet "Someone"
      ```
    * Pure Functions
      * No Side Effects
      * Output only depends on input
      * Predictable and Testable
    * Elm is declarative instead of imperative
    * Curried Functions
      ```elm
      (add 1) 2
      ```
      New function created for the each parameter.
    * Pipes -> Compose functions with expressive chaining
    * `|>` Pipe Operator - used for composing
      ```elm
      excitedGreeting name = 
        name
           |> String.toUpper
           |> greet
           |> exclaim
      ```
  * Strong static types
    * Can be inferred or Specified.
      * `isTrue : Bool`
      * `numbers : List Int` (type variable)
    Types for functions
      * `greet : String -> String`
      * `add : Int -> Int -> Int`
  * Immutable Data
    * All types are immutable
  * Record
    * Similar to Objects
      ```elm
        dog: {name : String, age : Int}
        dog = {
          name = "Something"
          age - 4
        }
      ``` 
    * Accessing Properties
      * `dog.age`
    * Record update syntax
      ```elm
      haveBirthday dog = 
        {dog | age = dog.age + 1}
      ```
      Copies all fields that aren't overriden
  * Custom Types
    * Alias Type
      ```elm
      type alias Dog = {
        name : String,
        age : Int,
        breed : Breed
      }
      ```
    * Union Type (kind of like enum)
      ```elm
      type Breed = Sheltie | Poodle
      ```
  * No null or undefined
    * "Maybe" type
  * Elm Architecture
    * *Model -> View -> Messages -> Update -> Model*
    * Model -> Data
    * View -> Render Visually
    * Messages -> Event Generated By The View
    * Update -> Take messages and update the model
    * Data always flows in one direction. No two-way data binding.
    * VDOM - Virtual Representation of the DOM
    
## Session 3: Learn React Before Lunch

Cory House

  * codesandbox.io
    * Specific to React
  * JSX
    * Basically HTML
    * className instead of class
    * htmlFor instead of for
  * create-react-app
    * Facebook's recommended way to get started
  * Can create components using a function or class
    * Function is preferred
  * Navigation.js
    ```javascript
    function Navigation() {
      return (
        some HTML
      )
    }
    
    export default Navigation;
    ```
  * `import Navigation from './Navigation`;
  * Can now use `<Navigation />`
  * JavaScript in JSX needs to be in curly braces
  * Props are passed into the function as a props variable
  * Can use JavaScript to write css for components
    * Can use JS variables
    * Can put in shared location in another JS file
  
## Session 4: Android Rx Java

Andrew May

  * Native first - cross platform second
  * > If you think good architecture is expensive try bad Architecture
    - Brian Foote & Joseph Yoder
  * Rx Java (functional programming)
    * Classes for representing data sources
    * Classes for responding to data sources
  * Streams are the main concept. Think reactively.
  * Observable & Observer
  *Backpressure
    * slow things down
  * Observable
    * Handling GUI Events
    * Similar to Iterable
    * Emits an item
    * Doesn't begin emitting until an observable subscribes
  * Observer
    * Assigned to an observable with subscribe()
    * Reacts when data is emitted
  * Real world uses
    * Network Communication
    * DB Calls
    * Hooks into UI
    * What do you need to stream?
  * Retrofit -> Network API Library for Android
    * Non android too?
  * Observable -> Emit
  * Observer -> Watch
  * Pay attention to backpressure
  * Think functional
  * github.com/AMCodeTankLabs
  
## Session 5: How to have code reviews developers actually want

Cameron Presley (pcameronpresley)

  * > Learn from those that came before you
  * Why do code reviews?
    * Cheaper to fix bugs sooner
    * Reduce risk for company
    * Show how others solve problems
  * Book: Code Complete
  * Common Mistakes
    * Reviewing too much?
      * How much is too much?
      * Best Practices for code review : IBM
        * Good report updated anually
      * Break down the work and have more code reviews
  * The 30% review -> reviewing before done will help make sure the approach is good
  * If you have a suggestion back it up with facts
  * Avoid Attacking the Developer
    * Re-enforce joint ownership of the code. Use "What should we do..." vs "What should you do..."
    * Code is the problem
  * What should a good code review look like?
    * Tight collaboration
    * Fact based discussions
    * Sharing information
    * Finding Bugs
  * Hard to classify "good" code and not be solely opinion based.
  * One developer should not be solely responsible for a part of an app
    * The Bus Factor
  * What to look at:
    * Quality
    * Readability
    * Maintainability
    * Style
  * Quality
    * Does it do what it should?
    * Edge cases?
    * How are errors handled?
  * Readability
    * Clear code is better than clever
    * Easy to understand?
  * Maintainability
    * Code always changes
    * The longer it takes to change...
      * the more expensive
      * mistakes are more likely
  * Style
    * Naming Conventions
    * Proper use of code constructs
    * Project Structure
    * Is it idiomatic?
  * How the speaker does code reviews
  * For Features
    * Framing : Understanding the need
      * Teaches devs the business
      * Helps with ubiquitous language
    * Inspection
      * Does the architecture make sense
      * Is it maintainable
      * Are unit tests well written
    * Verification
      * try out the feature
      * Keep an eye out for steps that don't make sense
      * Do we have tests to cover the new functionality
  * For Bugs
    * What is the problem?
    * Can we consistently reproduce the error?
    * Have we found the root cause?
    * Walk through
      * Top down
        * Start at the top and work down to where the problem was found.
      * Bottom Up
        * Start at the problem and work back up
    * Special focus
      * Is there anything the developer wants special focus on?
      * Asking for help is not a weakness
  * Book : The Clean Coder - Robert Martin
  * Blog Post : Brainstorming about code reviews 0 Geoff Mazeroff
  
## Session 6: Getting started with redux

Jeremy Fairbank

  * The wild west of state
    * State is anywhere and anyone can change it.
  * Redux
    * Predictable State container
      * All application state in one place
      * Predictable - state changes in one place
      * Changes in well defined ways
    * Actions -> Token/descriptors that describe an operation
    * Reducer -> Returns a new state from current state and an action.
      * Unhandled actions ignored
    * Decouple event from state change
  * Redux Store
    * Handle dispatching actions to the reducer
    * Notify subscribers of state change
  * Action Creators
    * Functions that create actions
  * Bound Action Creators
    * Automatically dispatch when action is called.
  * Redux is often associated with React (react-redux) library
  * *Action -> Reducer -> State -> React Redux -> React -> Action*
  * Data always flows in one direction
  * Immutable Object State
  * `{...state, counter: state.counter + 1}`
    * Object spread operator
    * New JS feature. Could also use lodash or other helpers.
  * Reducer Composition
    * Multiple Reducers
    * Single root reducer
    * Manages multiple child reducers
    * Combine reducers
  * Interacting with APIs
    * Middleware
      * Logging
      * Debugging
      * APIs
    * Between Actions and the Reducers
      * `applyMiddleware()`
    * Libraries
      * redux-logic
      * redux-saga
      * redux-observable
  * Testing
    * Unit tests for reducers are easy to write
    * Action creators are possible to test but not really required
    * Unit test with test doubles
    * Use integration tests
    
## Closing Keynote: David's Guide for the reluctant leader

David Neal

  * > Regardless of the technology you use or your job title you have the ability to make an impact
    * Paraphrased Quote...
  * Negotiation
    * Research
    * BATNA - Best alternative to negotiated agreement
    * Anchoring - Person making the first move has an advantage usually
    * Not just a workplace skill
  * 3 Virtues the ideal team player must possess
    * Humility
      * CS Lewis - Humility is not thinking less of yourself but thinking of yourself less
    * Hungry
      * Manageable/Sustainable Motivation
    * Smart
      * Common Sense/People Smart
  * Our industry attracts peopel with less people skills
  * DISC - Behavior Assessment Tool
  * Strengths Finger -> Tom Rath
  * Focus on your strengths.
    * Will be more engaged at work
  * Multitasking
    * No one is good at it
  * > A highway at 100% utilization is a parking lot.
    * True for people too
  * Too many tasks
    * Brains become overloaded
    * Paralyzed by indecision
  * Focusing on one thing at a time is more productive
  * > Meaningless and pointless work is soul crushing
  * Old Motto
    * > Life is too short to work somewhere that stinks.
    * Have you done everything you can do?
    * If you left would you have any regrets?
  * New Motto
    * > Life is too short to let things stay the way they are
    * Look beyond flaws
    * Freedom to fail
    * Keep trying
  * > There is no shortcut to success