# Session 5: Punch Complexity in the Face with RxJS

Josh Carroll

  * The Problem
    * Procedural Thinking
    * Applications are Dynamic (not prodecural)
      * Data Sources: Server (request/push), browser, events
      * Data is Asynchronous and Layered
      * Strategies:
        * Callback
          * leads to callback hell 
          * tons of nesting
          * hard to reason about
        * Promises
          * Limitations:
            * Immediately Executed
            * Single Value (once it runs it is done)
        * Observables
  * RxJS
    * Observable:
      * Create an observable
      * Subscribe to it with a callback
    * Pipe
      * A way of chaining functions
      * output from one function is passed to the next
```
        keyPresses.pipe(
          map(e => e.key),
          log(),
          filter()
        )
```
    * Operator `log()` function that takes an Observable and returns an Observable
    * Can compose Observables to create new Observables
    * An observable is just a pattern for setting up a contract between a producer and a consumer.
    * When you call subscribe on an observable you can provide three callbacks:
      * Next - Called for each new value
      * Error - Called if there is an error
      * Complete - Called when the observable is finished ( will not be called if an error is returned)
    * Operators
      * tap() - See the value, but not modify it
      * filter() - Used to filter the values that pass through it
      * map() - Use the value passed in and modify it in some way (for each value passed through)
      * You can create / compose your own operator functions to make the code more readable
        * Just a functiuon that takes an observable and gives a new observable
```
  function modFiveSquared(obs) {
    return obs.pipe(
      oper1(),
      oper2()
    );
  }
```
      * take() - Consume the specified number of values from the stream. Automatically unsubscribes/closes the observable.
      * scan() - Like reduce from functional programming. Takes an accumulator value and passes the return value from the previous event as the new accumulator parameter.
      * switchMap() - Lets you jump from one stream to another stream (or convert one stream to another). e.g. Convert a stream of IDs into API calls that will then return values in the new stream.
      * mergeMap() - Merge multiple streams into a single stream
      * from() - Create an observable from an array of values
      * retryWhen() - Keep retrying the previous observable value if ther was an error. 
  * Why does it matter?
    * Applications are dynamic compositions of data and events
    * RxJS normalizes both data and events
    
    